Elizabeth Smart was a 14-year-old girl.
Her family said she'd been taken
from her bedroom
in the middle of the night.
I saw this cut screen,
and the window was wide open.
My wife screamed, "Call 911."
Elizabeth was living a very normal life
in a very nice neighborhood.
Our community had mobilized.
Everybody was willing to just drop
what they were doing and search.
We love you. We want you
to come home safely to us.
This case captivated the nation.
There was a sense of, "Is it the family?"
"Could he be involved?"
My wife said,
"Law enforcement don't believe
that you're telling the truth."
I had nothing to do with this.
There's so little evidence to go on.
But there was a witness to the kidnapping,
her nine-year-old sister Mary Katherine.
I knew I'd heard the voice.
I just couldn't remember
where I'd heard it from.
We had the family create a list of
everybody that had been to the Smart home.
One of them was Richard Ricci.
He was a violent felon.
Tell me what you know
about the kidnapping.
I don't.
And now I'm the number one suspect.
Mary Katherine was very likely
the key to finding Elizabeth.
She had been asleep.
She would have been groggy.
Maybe she didn't realize
it had been Ricci.
You were in there, you were doing this,
and she woke up.
I'm not gonna sit here and tell you.
One particular night,
for some random reason,
the name popped into my head.
Mary Katherine said,
"I think I know who it is."
We weren't gonna leave it to the authorities.
She's out there. We could not give up.
I just wanted to tell them,
"I'm still alive."